right not too bad we're building a new
country uh so it's not necessarily a
startup Society it's a new country and
it's a lot of fun that we are having
with Croatian police you probably heard
couple stories from last couple of days
maybe we could at the end play the video
if you could find it uh from from the
recent developments uh some expected
events were happening the catian police
came to raid it us after one month and a
half of uh peacefully developing the
territory but again we were expecting
that it would happen sooner or later
it's just part of the development of our
relations with
Croatia um you know for us you know
think about it we have been working for
eight years just to get the access to
the territory so we are ready for a
couple more floodings in in the
relations with Croatia the fact that we
have been granted access to liberland
has been a major success in liberland
history and it was amazing success based
on three things uh first of all it was
the fact that CA joined shenen so they
lost the sovereignty over their borders
they became part of the Empire as baroso
says uh the the European Union and
shenen and uh that way they couldn't
really do what they could be do before
with us you know beat us on the border
then there was another element and I
just spoke with the gentleman niiko
omana who managed to get into liberland
and plant the flag there and 9 million
people saw the video how he gets beaten
right after he plants the flag in in the
middle of liberland without any legal
reason season uh so that was also pretty
pretty intense pressure on C and then
there was the third element that I
actually met the president of Croatia
and it was nice meeting we met in Zagreb
on the territory of this conference that
contacts the best cian and American
businesses together so it was a good
platform for meeting we shook hands
twice and uh and I'm I'm hoping that
this is also one of the key elements for
the fact that Croatia finally after8
years of struggling open the borders for
liber
lers uh so since month and a half it was
on 6th of August that we gained access
uh we have been actively developing
liberland we have been thinking how to
develop it we pushed all all kinds of
services forward including finalizing
the lent register and now finishing the
the legal system as well as the system
for fines uh because it's a hilarious
story of course you know the cretian
police doesn't like that much what we're
doing so they're able to hold us hostage
for six hours on the river but now it's
not going to be that easy from for them
from next week on and because for every
single minute they will get one minus
Merit uh inside of our legal system
which will accumulate and they will they
they should think twice because all
these merits will have a monetary value
or they already have it inside of
liberland uh and and we're going to Big
exchanges with our token fairly soon so
it's going to be a wild ride in in this
regard so let me go through the
presentation as it is
structured so liberland really wants to
be the state for the new Millennia we
try to combine together the best
elements of of nation states of the best
uh constitutions that are out there
little bit of American Constitution
Little Bit of Swiss democracy little bit
of Corporation and a little bit of
monarchy as well basically try to really
come up with the best system of
governance for human society and we put
everything on blockchain and we have
chosen I know you have chosen stellar
but we have chosen to work with the code
that is uh paa coded because we found
out that's one of the best proof of
stake systems and is our system is also
proof of stake but all our institution
starting from congress senate the courts
uh Registries everything that you can
think of including budgeting is
basically in one single platform so I
think we're at least five six years
ahead of any other nation state around
the world which gives us a huge Edge and
now this whole system is is becoming
live and it's transparent very efficient
you don't have to wait for catas for two
weeks or or five months or two years as
we are waiting now in Serbia it happens
in a split of second if you sell your
parcel if you send money there is nobody
that it can block it because the
liberland dollar the the currency of
liberland is is working the same way
like Bitcoin and liberland merits are
the shares of liberland but they also
your collateral in the system so if you
mess up really badly you can lose your
shares you don't really lose them but
they become they are staked and they you
cannot use them for unstaking anymore
the those merits are used to compensate
for the damage that you have created to
the third party so we have a kind of
like a smart system of collateral in in
this in this time when really people are
are switching to completely private keys
right and then but then there is no
responsibility in the society in a way
that you cannot really get anybody to be
accountable but in liberland it's
possible you can lose your shares of of
the state if you mess up badly if you
screw somebody or if you create some
damage and you don't want to compensate
it in a normal means so there is a way
to to fix it and it works greatly by the
way like most of the people that that
screwed liberland over last eight years
they were pushed to compensate back when
I explained them how the system will
work they understand how serious the
thing is and they don't want to be top
10 people that committed crime when the
whole system launches because it would
be also very bad PR for them but they
also understood it would be creating a
huge monetary damage if they kept being
criminals inside of liberland because
the value of these merits actually goes
up so if you Hur liberland eily your
damage that that that you have created
also grows very fast so it's in your
best interest to fix the mess that you
created and it's very important that
this system is working justly right that
that the the justice system itself is
going to work as good as possible so it
doesn't create errors it will also
happen but but I think it's it's still a
great tool what we have created and this
is the situation right
now so uh as that you understand a
little bit this is now liberland Marina
this is where liberland boats are parked
and we've got quite a few nice boats
this is
the uh this is the center of the of the
of liberland right now this is where the
construction of the presidential Palace
is taking place uh there is a an airport
that is being also already taken care of
by our finance minist
and and he wants to build a boutique
hotel over here because he's one of the
bigger shareholders and by the way these
merits also translate to your capability
to Homestead piece of land the more
merits you have the bigger is your right
to go and take over some
plot uh there is now a nice place for
horses in here and there is a farm that
is is also being taken care by by one of
our esteemed citizens Nicola from Italy
that that really wanted to start a farm
uh this whole area is Liberty Island
this is where the action with niik omana
took place it's pretty cool because I'm
doing my first presentation after we
actually settled the country so it's it
feels completely different right for for
eight years I've been I've been I've
been basically giving this presentation
why I only visited once liberland like I
I only had once chance to visit and
since then I've been kicked off but now
we actually taken care of the whole
property for more than month and a half
and it really feels magical
anyway um so so it's a huge step forward
and this is the house that used to be
here this is how we we stick the flag uh
right in front of it my father did a
really great job on the pole because
there were no screws anywhere it was
impossible to untie it and the screw
itself was one and a half meter deep so
I think they had a big problem getting
it out so that's why it stayed for 14
days there like like this and people
went there and they took the pictures
with did cretians it was a big
attraction and uh and when when we came
back now after these 8 years we had
really hard time even finding that
building the the whole thing is complete
Bush or now it's not because we actually
cleaned this whole territory already but
uh but still like it's pretty bushy in
this part for example but this is this
is the Liberty Street one and they they
in 2017 because we kept putting the flag
on this house they came with the
bulldozer and they completely leveled it
down that's why we couldn't find it a
couple years later but now there is a
there is still one thing that remains
there is a bunker basically or or like a
seller uh that managed to stay intact
and this is what we are going to fix
tomorrow with one of these famous
YouTubers and we will put a big wall
there so next time they come and WRA
liberland they will have to take this
big world outside of this seller uh so
that's one of the I think that would be
very funny story and especially if we
have this now these big YouTubers coming
down to liberland for tomorrow so anyway
the our inspiration of course is places
like switzland lonstein Singapore uh we
want to be but we want to be much better
than them in the sense that taxes in
liberland are completely voluntary the
only allowed tax is a l fee and uh uh
and basically everything else is is not
allowed it's it's banned tax uh so very
competitive government only four
Ministries make it everything as easy as
possible right now our legislation is
less than 200 pages and I believe you
can actually run a a functioning Society
you don't need a half million Pages like
European Union uh we have as I told you
everything on the blockchain which is I
think very nice technology that uh
allows us to really run in the
decentralized way any single citizen can
run the whole infrastructure of a
country on his computer very difficult
to get rid of and our elections are
every three months that there will be 21
members of Congress I wish I also found
one of the future Congressman here at
this place I believe there is quite a
bit potential here we are also democracy
because majority of citizens can decide
any time they want to get rid of any law
that they want they cannot install new
law which I think is terrible idea
because then there is this tyranny of
majority but majority of society can
reject the law that the corporate
governance of liberland or or the
Congress creates which nobody can say we
are not democracy yes we are democracy
because we allow democracy to get rid of
any law just like Swiss democracy does
but not not create new laws because
that's a Road to Hell the Judiciary is
completely decentralized it's a last
thing that needs to be programed any R
Developers are very welcome we've got
our lead developer here with us Dorian
back there uh right there so you know if
you are Developer please talk to talk to
us uh we have we've got diplomatic
presence all around the world now this
is our newly instituted Embassy in uh
Washington DC it's a very nice place
given to us by Brock Pierce uh so we're
very honored uh we've got our diplomatic
relation with these countries uh so we
are also quite based you know like we
have done a lot of work on diplomacy in
the eight years we have our mission in
European Parliament this was this is our
mission with the UN American congressmen
and Senators there were at least six of
them on this event and I'm going to
speak in 14 days again for them in
Washington DC this was for example with
one of the ministers in uh El Salvador
where we were for the lunch of Bitcoin
city which is also exciting project uh
president gave us a lot of credit during
his speech while he was announcing
Bitcoin City so we're also closely
connected to El Salvador and this was my
uh I got a nice award humanitarian award
for the help in heti and Dominican
Republic because I'm also sitting on the
board of liberland Aid foundation and we
delivered couple um containers with food
and couple ambulances and fire tracks so
uh you know our humanitarian activities
also quite widespread and then very cool
thing we also have a whole thing in
metaverse so we don't have just a 2d L
register we also have 3D Land register
so you are able to walk through
liberland uh the lead designer of this
metaverse didn't work that much on it
because he himself is now the mayor of
of liberland that's very cool I would
never expect that to happen but he
actually moved with his wife as one of
the first settlers and he's managing the
the construction and and the settlers so
I'm looking for somebody else to help
him to do this because right now we've
got electricity problem after we got
completely robbed by cretians uh we are
bringing more generators tomorrow and
more boats tomorrow but it was a bit of
a surprise because and we were expecting
it one month ago and then they came
little bit Uninvited uh anyway uh and
we're also building uh you know uh
Resorts and and Villages around
liberland so this is the one that is
being built it's AR Village in Serbia
it's right on the opposite side it's six
seven kilometers Downstream it's a great
place you can also come to visit but
it's a terrible paper headache you know
if we ever manage to fix the the
building permit I will be very happy but
I always said we will first build
skyscaper in liberland before we finish
these paper here in s and this is the
presidential Palace this is how this is
how it used to work look but we want to
extend it a little bit make some meeting
room for the Congress and uh and but but
keep it keep the building as it this and
we already actually built first two
lines of the of the bricks after they
completely damaged it this is from our
Marina uh this house boat has been also
damaged through like Croatian activities
they stole the house boat while I was
driving in liberland but we managed to
get it back now they have to compensate
that for the damage uh and it's just
moved back to atin for reconstruction
and we moving it right back to liberland
this boat didn't survived three attacks
of Creations so it's on the land right
now but it was also fun they they manag
they almost managed to ruin it but they
didn't manage to and this boat is now
the critical boat for the settlement all
the stuff and all the people are packed
in this boat because everything else was
stolen from
liberland uh and these are all the
buildings that that we started to build
uh this is where they are
situated uh this was the first house
that we built that we buil it literally
like in couple of days after we moved in
uh and it's good that they removed it
because the water can probably reach all
the way up to here
with the with the yearly flooding so I
was thinking it's better if the cretians
remove it than if the the flooding
removes it it's it's a more bonus for us
um yes and we're also getting this
thingy so we can move bigger things into
liberland like 32 tons um and this is
the the new police boat of liberland
pretty decent uh boat that we got now
that is a little bit faster than the
cretian police boat and has a little bit
more comfort so they're probably a
little bit jealous of that uh then this
we have a nice project for liberland
hotel
it's really lovely you can see the whole
video but we not going to go into that
deeply but it's a 10 million euro
project which we would like to start
building right away uh it's going to
have a nice Spa area nice balconies uh
you it's difficult to say if we will
have to go through one or two more
rounds of Destruction with cians we'll
see I think I think we are able to
actually make a deal with them now but
you know I I don't know I didn't know
how many years it will take to break
inside of liberland now how many years
or month it will take to really be able
to settle the relations with them it
really depends on International support
how much support are we able to get if
we're able to get for example Montenegro
to help us at least a little bit
diplomatically to push uh Croatia to
move a little bit more humanely towards
us or if Serbia will is going to help us
at least behind the scenes a little bit
or if the cretians themselves decide
this is actually great project we'll
have billions of dollars here in couple
of weeks let's embrace it let's stop
fighting it I think that would be the
best approach that they could of course
uh figure out uh anyway there are a
couple more pictures yes you are the
liberland is pretty much free territory
if you have your merits you can settle
wherever you want you can earn merits by
coming to liberland and working there
people are making as much as 20 EUR or
10 merits because right now it's € per
uh one Merit so uh you know people are
making very good salaries if you r don't
have money but you're skillful you can
easily make money and that's it from me
I wish you know you also decided to
become at least e resident of liberland
it's a nice procedure which takes uplo
minutes cost
$150 and you get nice liberland ID and
then you uh you don't have to pay visa
when you come to liberland by the way
the Visa is five merits right now our
border house has been destroyed so there
is nobody to collect the Visas but but
you know but there are some other
benefits like you can start a liberland
company and start business now we've got
nice integration with some exchanges and
with some banking institutions uh and
and a lot of things are actually coming
together once the blockchain ecosystem
really kicks in and I didn't want to
launch the token before we were not
settled in the territory because it
would be bit you know like problematic
from the point of view that you're like
not in the country that you're claiming
but when when we are there physically I
think it's a great opportunity to lunch
the whole ecosystem and show the power
of of decentralized ecosystems so that's
it from me
yes um thank you very
[Applause]
[Music]
much now we have a great 10 minutes for
questions
so
Michael mhm thank you uh just Michael
told me a story about when no one asks
questions there should be one person who
will do it so I ask him now it's your
job in fact basically um uh so what is
the opportunities for your uh uh e
resident card and passport in terms of
official uh travel opportunities and
visas with other countries that's that's
a good question now we're actually
collecting all the stems from all the
countries I think maybe 20% of the world
has been traveled with liberland
passport successfully don't expect that
you will be able to get into shenen with
it but most of Africa is travelable
Pacific Islands as well they basically
check that the country exist and they're
cool with it uh now the more advanced
countries like Dominican Republic this
this is where we are making the
Diplomatic deal and I hope it's going to
happen in a couple of days uh Haiti you
know that has been already tested and
works because we also have very good
relations there uh so it's it's more
about relations there if they somehow
recognize us uh send some of these
countries already put us into their
systems like in Colombia for example
we're in some internal internal system
of Colombia so when you check into
hotels they have a liberland in the list
which is pretty amazing so uh and for
some of the exchanges like Kraken
recognizes our passports for long time
actually from very beginning of of
existence of liberland because they were
fans and then a couple more exchanges uh
you know so there are opportunities to
use it of course right now the main use
of it is that you can show that your
city of liberland to other people in
your
community okay any more
[Music]
questions
okay how are you going to deal with Crea
later there you will have a b border
control for your
own actually we already had it you know
it's uh and uh and the security company
is hired for another and paid for
another two weeks right now so we we
have 247 security guards in liberland
that are checking people's documents so
Croatia does check them they didn't they
Ur install the Border but they did it de
facto by making strict control of who
comes in and who comes out of liberland
right uh and what we did on the other
end we built this house for for the
security guys uh well it's not there but
maybe we can find the video by the way
the video of the destruction if you go
to liberland okay guys if you can you go
to YouTube and and check the latest
video on our website I can play it for
you so you can see how the action was
happening in liberland including how
they were destroying our security house
two days ago um so so yes the plan is
basically that that liberland has its
own borders and we are also checking
people's do we have already done it for
more than a week people were standing
there and checking people's documents
and uh the plan is from next week on
also to charge people that don't pay the
visa for entry charge them minus five
merits for not for failing to prove that
they have fill in the Visa and when know
basically we believe that liberland will
become so popular at some point that the
Visa itself will have to be used to
regulate number of people inside of
liberland you know that basically it
would be overly crowded and and the the
visa fee will have to adjust according
to the expected number of visitors so we
can regulate number of people in
liberland right think about it now we
have 700,000 people that applied online
but imagine when we actually go live and
we start to build all these amazing
buildings there and kids park and and
stuff like that uh yeah so this is the
video also shows the some of the
projects that we want to do so maybe we
can play it
quickly
well at least I can give you comments
this was the water purification facility
that they have stolen this is the beach
bar uh that was the first building
behind it those were all like maybe two
three tons of wood that we were planning
to use for the glamping we have the same
glimps uh and we still have couple like
you have up there uh I bought them
actually already two years ago to be
ready for settlement of liberland so
these were all our border guards that
were removed forcibly removed from our
border house this guy also plays violin
so during the whole Siege he was
diligently playing violin it was
hilarious um yes and they were beating
us and the more beating we get the
better for us as well because of course
catian police completely recklessly
conducting violence on on on a foreign
country outside of its territory it's a
great case for the court uh and then
they were these guys they came and they
orally tried to Rob us like everything
that you didn't hold in your hand they
try to take it so it's like a blatant
robberry you know activity that they
have contacted it almost feels like this
hihiker guide to Galaxy you know all
these workers trying to destroy the and
and people trying to um you know trying
to save their stuff this was one of the
glams did you see that they were
carrying one of the glams out of there
they they managed to create the
the the total Destruction of around
60,000 in my estimate which is not too
bad that uh we were not giving them too
much chances to steal much more the most
valuable stuff we we managed to get out
of there but they took the Starling and
they said it's trashh so I was thinking
maybe you know Elon Musk would actually
react to that that he don't share the
the opinion that his Starling is a trash
um anyway so we want to actually build a
a beautiful uh kid Park I'm doing it for
my kids uh but I'm also doing it because
it's very difficult to destroy kids park
and we've got the part Mir miraculum I
think it's one of the best kids parks in
in Europe maybe in the world actually
it's a really nice place it's in next to
PRK go and visit and the the guy that is
building this place is a big fan and I
hope he's coming to help us to design
the park and we want to start building
in next couple of weeks we got another
guy that also has a beautiful Park he's
coming also next week to start building
so it's it's a lot of fun and you know
right now we are kind of in this
abundance phase when we really can
decide and strategize what to do next
because
the the the money in flow from the
700,000 people that applied for
citizenship once we actually managed to
settle the territory and the interest in
citizenship has gone 10x over what it
was before so basically the damage that
they have created now with this one step
is basically the income that we are
getting daily from the network so like
we can have this type of Destruction and
and much more media happening almost
every day without any any slowdown in
our progress in our final goal which is
to build a sovereign country in
liberland
so okay I was just wondering with with
all the limitations of the visit of your
country shall we call you a president in
Exile uh well kind of yes yes I got
kicked out of Croatia and liberland so
I'm I'm president in Exile uh but I
don't mind because I my my schedule over
the next two month is completely packed
so I I cannot even go back to liberland
but I'm happy that our minister of
Finance move permanently to liberland
and he's a really strong person to to
run things he had his own uh development
Agency for for houses in Luxembourg one
of the more successful ones but at some
point he just sold everything like three
years ago and put everything in Bitcoin
just become tired of the paperwork also
so this is a like a great example of
somebody moving in liberland you know
pissed off developer from Luxembourg
that just don't want to deal with the
paperwork anymore sold everything
changed it to bitcoin and it's is ready
to invest in liberland 3 years later
with you know 10x the capital that he
had while he was running his development
agency so like we we're on a right we're
kind of enjoying it you know if you're
coming down enjoy it with us it's a lot
of fun to start start new
country so we have time for one more
question thank you VI uh I have a
question have you considered um going
into politics in Croatia
and becoming uh a figure of authority
there so is to solve your problems in
your
country it's not how it works no I
haven't I haven't know this is actually
not how it works no we're we're building
new country we're not messing with other
countries politics I try to fix existing
country it's almost impossible because
you would have to change the mindset of
the people and there are only two to
three% of people that really appreciate
Freedom you know and how do you want to
work with that in a country like Catia
yes you can you know you can get a
support of 2 or 3% of reasonable people
in the society but it's simply not
enough to make any reasonable changes
right so it's much better to start a new
country than try to change existing one
I'm serious about that one all right
thanks a lot it's a lot of lot lot of
fun a lot of great people here I already
met you know we've got somebody that is
doing Hydroponics and we're going to
work on some tokenomics already a couple
people that are coming to liberland and
I hope we might have Ambassador for
montro here as well maybe all right
thank you very much thank
you